[#609] Add /resolve-pr-comments skill (#625)
nimblehq/ios-templates: skills/resolve-pr-comments/SKILL.md

---
name: resolve-pr-comments
description: Guided workflow to address, reply to, and resolve GitHub PR review threads — one at a time, collaboratively. Use when the user says `/resolve-pr-comments` optionally followed by a PR URL or a comment URL.
disable-model-invocation: true
triggers:
  - /resolve-pr-comments
  - resolve PR comments
  - address PR review
  - respond to code review
  - reply to PR thread
---

# resolve-pr-comments

Guided workflow to address, reply to, and resolve GitHub PR review threads — one at a time, collaboratively.

---

## Fetch Threads Workflow

Retrieve unresolved review threads from GitHub.

### Workflow: Fetch Unresolved Threads

1. Parse the URL provided by the user:
   - **PR URL** (`/pull/123`) — process all unresolved threads
   - **Comment URL** (`/pull/123#discussion_r<ID>`) — process that single thread
   - If no URL is provided, ask the user before proceeding

> 2. Extract `owner`, `repo`, and `pull_number` from the URL

Reviewer: I think we should put a step `fetch the PR head ref from GitHub, compare it to git branch --show-current, and stop if they differ` before step 2  to ensure that the local checkout matches the PR branch before making edits

Author: Good point, added a step before implementing that fetches the PR head ref and stops if it doesn't match the local branch. Done in f8f06d2.

Thread: <path>
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Comments:
  [author] createdAt
  > body
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
```

#### Step 1 — Analyze and propose

Reads the file at `path` to get current context, then proposes one of:

- **"No code change needed."** — explain what reply to send and why no change is required
- **"Code change needed."** — describe the change; ask: *"Should I make this change?"*

Wait for user confirmation or adjustment before proceeding.

#### Step 2 — Implement (if code change)

Make the code change. **Do not commit or push yet.**

#### Step 3 — Draft commit message and reply, then confirm

Compose both drafts and present them together for user approval.

**Commit message:** Use the `/commit` skill convention (`[#ID] Verb message`). Derive the issue ID from the branch name (e.g. `chore/609-add-skill` → `#609`).

**Reply:** Vary the phrasing naturally based on the nature of the comment:
  - `"Good catch, fixed in <sha>."`
  - `"Good point, updated in <sha>."`
  - `"Agreed, refactored in <sha>."`
  - `"Done, updated in <sha>."`
  - `"Fixed in <sha>."`
  - Avoid repeating the same opener across multiple threads in the same PR.

>   - Use `<sha>` as a placeholder since the commit hasn't happened yet.

Reviewer: I don't think we should put response message in every thread. In real life, when we resolve multiple comments in just 1 commit, it's better for this posts 1 comment like "Thank you for your review, I resolved your commit in <commit hash>"

Author: Per [Compass](https://nimblehq.co/compass/development/code-reviews/pull-request-feedback/), the convention is to reply to every comment with a text response and include a link to the fix — so per-thread replies with a SHA are intentional here.

> **No-code-change reply:** Brief factual explanation, 1–2 sentences. If referencing a specific piece of code, first use search or read to locate the snippet and determine the correct line number(s), then include it as a code block:

Reviewer: I think this part should be placed separately, it does not belong to the step 3,  because we already `Make the code change.` -> `Draft commit message` in step 2 and 3.

Author: Agreed — moved the no-code-change reply guidance into Step 1 as its own branch with a skip-to-Step-6 note, so the code-change path (Steps 2–5) stands alone. Done in 1208518.

---

## Fetch Threads Workflow

Retrieve unresolved review threads from GitHub.

### Workflow: Fetch Unresolved Threads

1. Parse the URL provided by the user:
   - **PR URL** (`/pull/123`) — process all unresolved threads
   - **Comment URL** (`/pull/123#discussion_r<ID>`) — process that single thread
   - If no URL is provided, ask the user before proceeding
2. Extract `owner`, `repo`, and `pull_number` from the URL
3. Use `gh` CLI to fetch review threads for the PR
4. Filter to threads where `isResolved == false`
5. If a comment URL was given, further filter to the thread containing the comment with `databaseId == <ID>`
6. If no unresolved threads exist, report that immediately and stop
7. **Validation:** Threads fetched; unresolved threads identified; pagination limits noted (>100 threads or >20 comments per thread may be truncated — use comment URL to process in batches)

---

## Per-Thread Resolution Workflow

Work through each unresolved thread collaboratively.

### Workflow: Resolve a Thread

For each unresolved thread, display context then work through the steps below. Steps 2–5 apply only when a code change is needed; skip them otherwise.

**Display format:**

> ```

Author: Good catch, fixed in 7c3d625.

> # resolve-pr-comments

Reviewer 2: Regarding this page https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills,

we should have `YAML frontmatter` (between --- markers) that tells Claude when to use the skill, and markdown content with instructions Claude follows when the skill is invoked

Reviewer 3: And inside `YAML frontmatter` we should set `disable-model-invocation: true` because this skill has side effects (commit/push/post comment/resolve thread) and should only run when explicitly invoked.

Guided workflow to address, reply to, and resolve GitHub PR review threads — one at a time, collaboratively.

## Trigger

Use when the user says `/resolve-pr-comments` optionally followed by a PR URL or a comment URL.

---

## Input

The user provides either:
- **PR URL**: `https://github.com/owner/repo/pull/123` — process all unresolved threads
- **Comment URL**: `https://github.com/owner/repo/pull/123#discussion_r<id>` — process that single thread

If no URL is provided, ask the user for one before proceeding.

Extract `owner`, `repo`, and `pull_number` from the URL.

---

## Step 1 — Fetch threads

> ### Single comment URL (fragment `#discussion_r<ID>`)

Reviewer 2: I think we can simply mention using `gh` CLI, the model is smart enough to know how to fetch comments

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
  query {
    repository(owner: "OWNER", name: "REPO") {
      pullRequest(number: PR_NUM) {
        reviewThreads(first: 100) {
          nodes {
            id
            isResolved
            path
            diffHunk
            comments(first: 20) {
              nodes {
                databaseId
                author { login }
                body
                createdAt
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }'
```

Filter to the thread whose `comments.nodes` contains a node with `databaseId == <ID>`.

### PR URL (all threads)

Use the same GraphQL query above. Filter to nodes where `isResolved == false`.

---

## Step 2 — Display thread context

For each thread, display clearly:

```
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Thread: <path>
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Diff hunk:
<diffHunk>

Comments:
  [author] createdAt
  > body

  [author] createdAt
  > body
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
```

---

## Step 3 — Per-thread loop

For each unresolved thread, work through these steps in order:

### 3a — Analyze and propose

> Claude reads the file at `path` to get current context, then proposes one of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reads the file at `path` to get current context, then proposes one of:
```

Removing Claude, so other LLM tools can be used

Author: Good point, updated in 5b3bf16.

- **"No code change needed."** — explain what reply to send and why no change is required
- **"Code change needed."** — describe the change; ask: *"Should I make this change?"*

Wait for user confirmation or adjustment before proceeding.

### 3b — Implement (if code change)

Make the code change. **Do not commit or push yet.**

### 3c — Draft commit message and reply, then confirm

Compose both drafts and present them together for user approval:

> **Commit message:** follow the Nimble Compass convention (`[#ID] Verb message`). Derive the ID from the branch name using the same rules as the `/commit` skill.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention about using `/commit` skill instead

**Reply:** vary the phrasing naturally based on the nature of the comment — examples:
  - `"Good catch, fixed in <sha>."`
  - `"Good point, updated in <sha>."`
  - `"Agreed, refactored in <sha>."`
  - `"Done, updated in <sha>."`
  - `"Fixed in <sha>."`
  - `"Updated in <sha>."`
  - Use your judgment — pick whichever fits the tone of the original comment. Avoid repeating the same opener across multiple threads in the same PR.
  - Use a placeholder like `<sha>` since the commit hasn't happened yet.

For a **no-code-change** reply: brief factual explanation, 1–2 sentences max. If referencing a specific piece of code, include it as a code block with a comment on the first line showing the file path, line number, and a link to that file on GitHub:
  ````
  ```{language inferred from file extension}

>   // {path}, line {N} — https://github.com/OWNER/REPO/blob/BRANCH/path/to/file#LN

Reviewer 3: Require including line {N} + #L{N} link, but the skill never instructs how to find N. Suggest adding: “use search / read to locate the snippet and determine the correct line number(s) before replying”, or loosen the requirement to allow linking to the file without a line anchor if not trivial.

  relevant code here...
  ```
  ````
  Use the current branch name for the link. Include only the most relevant lines — keep the snippet short.

No emoji unless the user adds them.

Show both drafts to the user at once:

> **Commit message:** `"[#595] Fix commit description format"`
> **Reply:** `"Good point, updated in <sha>."`
> Does this look good?

Wait for explicit approval (or edits) before proceeding.

### 3d — Commit, push, then post the reply

Once the user approves:

1. Commit using the approved message:

```bash
git add <files> && git commit -m "APPROVED COMMIT MESSAGE"
```

2. Capture the short SHA:

```bash
git log --oneline -1
```

3. Push:

```bash
git push
```

4. Replace `<sha>` in the reply with the real short SHA, then post it using `in_reply_to` on the PR comments endpoint — more reliable than the `/replies` endpoint, which 404s when the target comment is itself a reply:

```bash
gh api repos/OWNER/REPO/pulls/PULL_NUMBER/comments \
  -X POST \
  -f body="REPLY TEXT" \
  -F in_reply_to=COMMENT_DATABASE_ID
```

> `COMMENT_DATABASE_ID` is the `databaseId` of the **first comment** in the thread (the root). `PULL_NUMBER` is the PR number extracted from the URL.

Reviewer 3: We should use safer wording
```suggestion
`COMMENT_DATABASE_ID` is the `databaseId` of the **thread’s top-level comment** in the thread (oldest in the thread). `PULL_NUMBER` is the PR number extracted from the URL.
```

Author: Done, updated in 1464ffd.
